{% extends "nova_syllabus_template.md" %}

{% set course_num = 'ITD 110' %}

{% set course_name = 'Web Page Design I' %}

{% set term = 'Fall 2025' %}

{% set times_a = 'TBD' %}
{% set times_b = 'TBD' %}


{% block course_description %}
Stresses a working knowledge of web site designs, construction, and management using HTML.  Includes headings, lists, links, images, image maps, tables, and forms. Provides a working knowledge of website management from a Unix shell environment. 3 Credits.
{% endblock %}

{% block course_purpose %}
Introduces students to the development of web sites while coding HTML and CSS. Students will learn site design, construction, and management using HTML and CSS.  Students will not be using automated code generators in this course.
{% endblock %}

{% block prerequisite %}

{% endblock %}

{% block required_materials %}
*  Course website: <https://ict.gracehopper.center>
*  OpenEDG HTML5 & CSS3 Specialist Online Curriculum
{% endblock %}

{% block objectives %}
Upon completing the course, the student will be:

1.  knowledgeable in current web page creation technologies.
2.  proficient in using text editors to write HTML and CSS code.
3.  able to discuss, recognize, and apply the elements of good design.
4.  familiar with the use of web servers.
{% endblock %}

{% block major_topics %}
1.  Getting started with HTML and CSS
2.  Formatting text
3.  Creating hypertext links
4.  Using color and graphics
5.  Using tables
6.  Creating user-friendly navigation
7.  Working with HTML forms
8.  Working with Cascading Style Sheets
9.  Designing HTML and CSS for multiple devices (Responsive Design)
10.  Incorporating audio and video elements
11.  Publishing to a web server using FTP (File Transfer Protocol)
12.  Understanding the implications of copyrights on web design
13.  Knowledge of the basics of accessibility as it relates to web design
{% endblock %}

{% block time_allocation %}

{% endblock %}

{% block grades %}
      A.  Quarter Grades (40% each)
          i. Classwork/Homework Grades: 20%
         ii. Test/Project Grades: 80%

      B.  Exam (20%)

{% endblock %}

{% block course_schedule %}
      A.  Critical Course Dates
          * Course Start Date: Monday, August 25, 2025
          * Course Drop Date:	Wednesday, September 17, 2025
          * Course Withdrawal Date: Thursday, November 27, 2025
          * Final Exam Date: Week of January 20  to 23, 2026
          * Course End Date: Thursday, January 29, 2026
      B.  Course Schedule: Will be posted in detail on our course website.
      
{% endblock %}


